So, in this Notebook you looked at a couple of
different ways to remove values using pandas.
There are two main libraries in Python that you might use to remove missing values.
One is scikit-learn and the other is
pandas and in this particular Notebook you're working with pandas.
So with that, here we read in a bunch of libraries again,
including our tests to make sure that our answers sort of
match the solutions and then here we created this dummy dataset,
which basically just numbers one through 18 with
some missing values in here and this is going to just be for illustration purposes,
to show how we can remove different things from our dataset.
So we have this thing called small dataset and in this case we want to drop any row.
So, there's a drop NA and there's
two main things to keep track of and one is how and the other is axis.
So axis keeps track of whether you want
to drop by rows or columns and a lot of times I forget,
so I'll just like try something and then see if it looks the way that I want.
Doing it on the small datasets can be really useful,
because then you can really see what's happening before
you move on to maybe your full data set of interest.
So, in this case, we want to drop any row with a missing value so you can
imagine we want to drop the first row and then this row and this row,
so we should have one,
four and five still left.
I'm just going to say axis equals zero,
so it should have one,
four and five left and it does and then we can run it against the test,
it looks like we did that right,
and then the next one says drop only the rows with all missing values,
so in our case that should mean that we only want to drop this row here,
so only if it has all missing values and so if we use the How,
small dataset.drop NA and then if we specify
how equals all and axis equals zero, so what we did before.
So axis equals zero is the rows,
axis equals one is the columns I believe, so zero,
one, three, four, five, so that looks right and then
says drop only the rows with missing values in column three.
So, this can be useful,
small dataset and drop NA.
There's also this thing called subset,
which can be really useful,
so subset and then basically what you do is you
give it a list of the columns you want to keep track of.
So in our case only column three and then only rows with missing values,
so not all of them so the how is any.
So, we could specify that but it's also the default
and then we want to drop the row still,
so we're going to say axis equals zero and yeah,
so it looks like if they had missing values and three,
So if we go back up.
So we should have dropped to zero and we should have dropped two,
so we should have one, three, four and five,
because zero and two had missing values in column three,
one three, four and five, so that looks like what I would
expect and if we run it against the solution.
So it says nice job, that looks right.
And then this last one says
drop only the rows with missing values in column three or column one.
So, again we're going to drop the rows so that's an axis equals
zero and then our subset here actually we want call one as well as call three,
so if we have missing values in either column three or column one,
so we give it a list of those things so if we had five columns that we wanted to
look at we'd give it a list of
those five column names and then if there are missing values in those,
it will drop the refs.
Going back up here,
we can make sure the sort of looks right.
So column one should suggest we drop two and three and
column three suggests we drop to zero and two,
so we should drop zero,
two and three and be left with one,
four and five according to those results.
So, one, four and five looks like what I would expect and if we run our test,
it says nice job.
So, cool, looks like we're ready for the next thing.